[TAKANO]
Now, pop quiz!
Which of these
vegetables is green?
Broccoli, or cauliflower?
Caul‐‐ No. Broccoli?
That's correct.
[laughs]
This is the part where
you kill me, right?
It is.
I hope you're ready.
Takano.
If I had realized you were
out here with Tomitake,
I would have left you two alone!
I'll let you two
have your privacy.
Ni‐paa!
[gasps]
Please forgive me...
for what I'm about to say.
But why?
Why would you apologize?
[TOMITAKE] Takano got
caught up in something
very big and very dangerous.
[TAKANO] Thank you for
defending me, but that's wrong.
I wasn't caught up in anything.
I knew what was at stake,
and I made my choice.
[RIKA]
Whatever you did.
I don't understand why you
decided to tell me about it.
I've been pursuing
a personal agenda
that nearly
led me to sacrifice‐‐
Takano.
It's fine.
This is the night
of Watanagashi.
And I'm ready to
be rid of this sin.
To lay it bare
and set it adrift.
You see, I intended
to kill you, Rika.
My plan demanded sacrifices
that were never mine to make.
Your life. Your friends.
I had no right!
[RIKA]
To think you're apologizing.
Sorry, Rika, but she and I
really need to get out of here.
[RIKA] So, what do you
two plan to do next?
Getting her out of
Hinamizawa is priority one.
She's a key witness, and
this is all about to blow up.
I won't allow anything
to happen to her.
This won't end
in tragedy, right?
Will you make that a promise?
[TOMITAKE]
Mm.
I promise you.
Now let's go.
Okay.
Takano.
I understand what
you planned to do,
but I don't understand
why you gave up
and confessed to it all.
I feel like I could have
known you for a hundred years
and never seen you
totally change your mind
on something like
this all of a sudden.
[TAKANO]
Hmph.
I can't say.
Even if I tried to explain,
I don't think you'd
be able to understand.
[BLOODHOUND A]
Rika Furude?
Satoko‐‐
[BLOODHOUND A] Please forgive
the unexpected visit.
I'm one of the
Tokyo Bloodhounds.
Lieutenant Tomitake
sent me here.
For your own safety,
please remain quiet.
Mii. Is Tomitake okay?
He is.
But the situation
here is unstable.
For the moment,
he wants you under our watch.
[BLOODHOUND B]
Excuse me, sir.
We were hoping we could
get some bushes pruned.
[OKONOGI] Well! I was
just about to open up.
Gimme a sec, please,
if you would.
Come on in.
Sorry about the
state of the place.
It's a mess.
Let's get you two some tea.
[OKONOGI] So you tell me you got
some bushes in need of pruning.
In Okinomiya, I'm guessing?
That's right.
And we'd like to get it
done as soon as possible.
[OKONOGI]
Lemme ask you this first.
Where'd you two come from?
[gasps]
[OKONOGI]
See.
It's clear enough
you boys aren't locals.
And those accents say "Tokyo."
You're under arrest.
Come quietly, Okonogi.
And what are the charges?
Unwarranted execution of EM 34
and conspiracy
to commit a mutiny.
Miyo Takano is my CO and
I demand to speak to her.
Request denied.
Right. That's what's going on.
The little bird found out
what the cuckoo was planning.
Or maybe she decided she wanted
to leave the nest on her
own terms instead of ours.
Orders, Captain?
[OKONOGI]
Stand down!
It's too late to try
and make this a fight.
Consider the operation aborted,
and give yourselves up now.
Understood.
Where's Doctor Irie?
Did anything happen to him?
[BLOODHOUND D]
I apologize, sir.
The clinic will be under
renovations for a while.
[VILLAGER B]
Really? Well, damn.
[VILLAGER A]
Nothin' for it.
We'll check back soon.
We appreciate the cooperation,
Lieutenant Colonel.
I would prefer you
not call me by my rank.
I'm just a doctor here.
Doctor.
We'll be transferring you into
the Investigation Team's custody
when the inspection is done.
Until that time,
you'll be with us.
I understand.
[IRIE] I appreciate
you taking the effort
not to wake up Satoshi.
He's in the late stages
of Hinamizawa Syndrome.
If he knew what
was happening now,
the fear and paranoia
would be crippling.
He'd see everyone
here as an enemy.
[BLOODHOUND E]
What's with the teddy bear?
It was supposed to be a
gift for his sister, Satoko.
A present he worked hard for
and never had
the chance to give her.
I have every intention of coming
back here to treat Satoshi.
Until Hinamizawa Syndrome
is fully eradicated,
my mission here
will not be complete.
I'm not the one you
have to convince, Doctor,
that'll be the Disciplinary
Committee's call.
[VOICE]
Retriever Seven to all units.
We've located a locked suitcase
that matches Major
Takano's description
of the H‐173 specimen carrier.
Repeat. The suitcase
described in Major Takano's...
[IRIE]
It can't be.
It's H‐173.
This is a bioweapon.
A refined strain
of Hinamizawa Syndrome.
One that progresses
it's victims to L5.
Straight to the terminal stage.
It's a terrifying thing.
Batch 170 was
supposed be destroyed,
but there's no
denying it's here!
[TOMITAKE]
Hey there, Rika.
Huh?
[RIKA]
Tomitake, you're okay!
It does feel a little unusual
seeing you still around
after the night of Watanagashi.
[laughs]
Well, most years I do go home
right after the festival ends.
That's not exactly
what I was talking about,
though I guess it's true.
But anyway, where did
you two go after we spoke?
Well, after we took off
from the festival,
I managed to get us
out of Hinamizawa
and rendezvous
with the Bloodhounds
before the Mountain Dogs
could catch our scent.
I figured that doggy who showed
up at my house was yours.
[TOMITAKE laughs]
You know those guys
are special ops,
I don't think they'd appreciate
you calling 'em "doggies."
[RIKA]
Is my life still in any danger?
I promise it's
all gonna be fine.
We took over
Okonogi Landscaping,
so the Mountain Dogs
have no more front,
and we control Irie's clinic.
Did anything happen to Irie?
[TOMITAKE] Tokyo still has
him in custody for the moment,
but he'll be fine.
According to Takano's testimony,
Irie himself had no knowledge
of what she was planning,
and all the evidence
we've gathered so far
seems to confirm that.
The underground
research facility
is going to be
shut down permanently,
but the clinic will
be open again soon.
You mean he's going
to be coming back?
[TOMITAKE]
Mm‐hmm.
The people in this village
will still need a doctor.
What's more,
they need to know somebody
is still fighting to
cure Hinamizawa Syndrome.
And her?
I couldn't say. Although.
Takano prevented
a lot of innocent blood
from being spilled by confessing
to her part in the plot.
Plus, the brass have
a bigger issue now.
This has exposed factional
fault lines within Tokyo.
I really don't think they would
come down on her too hard.
And the rest of
the organization treats
the Hinamizawa Syndrome
post like unexploded ordnance.
None of 'em want any part of it.
Then does that mean they're
just planning to let her be?
Uh?
[laughs]
Well, it might mean they don't
plan to hold onto her too long.
But whenever they let her out.
I'm gonna be right
there to pick her up.
Is this really
how it's going to end?
Will there be no tragedy?
Did I come to the world
where the dice
land on six every time?
Or perhaps,
this world has no dice.
It's impossible to say.
[RIKA]
What can this mean?
Until now, every world I've come
to was destined for tragedy.
So what's going on?
It's like this
world saved itself.
As if the outcome was determined
before I even had a
chance to roll the dice.
Could my fortune genuinely have
turned around so completely,
and so suddenly?
Or could it be that someone
else is rolling for me,
and I only imagined
that I was in control at all?
[HANYUU] Its blade has the
ability to sever the loops,
and offer an end
to those for whom death
is but another beginning.
[RIKA] I finally reached
a world free of tragedy.
I've rolled one
six after another.
Everything has been perfect.
All my friends
are alive and well.
And I can't trust it.
Why am I still so afraid?
[SATOKO]
Why are you up here alone?
You do know I've been looking
everywhere for you, right?
Mii!
It's plain to see
you're feeling troubled.
Could there be something I don't
know about that's bothering you?
It feels like everything's
perfect now,
and that's honestly starting
to scare me a little bit.
[SATOKO] I'm sorry for the
lack of hardship in your life.
For whatever it's worth,
I could hardly be more content.
I have the privilege of
sharing this beautiful view
of the village where I grew up
with my dearest friend
in all the world.
I can't imagine being
happier than I am now.
Doesn't your
heart feel full, Rika?
I do have a lot to be happy for.
I'm glad you recognize that.
And I, for one, refuse to let
unfounded fears spoil my mood.
Happy moments are
such valuable things.
Letting them pass you by
is like not going to the
supermarket during a sale.
Maybe all this worrying
is a waste of time.
And maybe you don't
quite understand
how happiness actually works.
Even the smallest moments
of pain can leave marks
on our hearts that will
last the rest of our lives.
And yet,
those tiny moments of
happiness roll right off of us,
and when we forget about them,
we forget all the
ways we're blessed.
Until eventually,
even being perfectly content
leaves us yearning
for some greater happiness.
How sad it would be,
not to let yourself be happy
for fear that it can't last.
Aren't you happy
right now, Rika?
And don't you think that
should count for something?
[RIKA]
Hmm...
It should count for a lot.
You're right.
It's wonderful that I get
to be here with you right now,
and it does make me happy.
But it's true.
I can't stop myself expecting
something terrible to happen.
Then for the time being, you're
just gonna have to keep living
a happy, healthy life surrounded
by your loving friends.
Luckily, this is Hinamizawa,
and as long as we're here,
we're under Lord Oyashiro's
loving protection.
[RIKA] Lord Oyashiro
would get so flustered
hearing you say that.
[SATOKO]
Hey.
Promise me you won't leave.
Okay, Rika?
[MION]
Okay! Get ready, kids.
Every day is game day
and every game's for keeps!
The club's in session,
and the penalties are insane!
[chuckles]
Now, who's going to be
today's unfortunate victim?
Yeah!
Let's do this!
And since Watanagashi is over,
I get to join in
with you guys this time!
I won't lose today!
Me neither!
None of you really understand
how much I'm capable of yet,
so you won't see me
coming until it's too late
[chortles]
Though you never
even try to set traps,
your ability to
cling to your delusions
through all your losses
always catches me off guard!
What's that,
you snotty little brat?
[cries]
You guys, Keiichi's
picking on me!
He made Satoko cry,
and it's the cutest thing
I've ever seen in my life!
I'm keeping her!
Awww!
Aww, poor, poor,
pitiful Keiichi.
I wouldn't keep coming back
if I didn't like
a little bit of pain.
Cool.
None of my business
what you're into.
If that's your thing,
who am I to judge you, right?
[MION]
Kei with two pair!
[RIKA]
Three of a kind.
And Rika cleans us all out,
shocking no one.
[MION]
I really screwed the pooch,
calling you on the
fifth hand like that.
Amazing, Rika, your poker face
had me totally fooled!
It was really just luck.
Everyone but Rika lost,
so who pays the penalty?
Well obviously, everybody
has to pay up except Rika.
You call it.
What're we doing?
I already know
exactly what I want.
I made these notes for everyone.
These are your penalties.
Make sure not to look at
anybody's note but yours, okay?
Would you do
that for me, please?
Sure.
That'll be no problem.
Right, understood.
[RENA]
Mm.
I already know something
that'll be perfect for this!
Rika, what's this about?
I decided to make you go
to the grocery store with me.
Ni‐paa!
This doesn't feel
like much of a penalty.
Wasn't that basically like any
other trip to the grocery store?
We don't usually
spend nearly this much!
I suppose not.
We did buy quite a bit of food.
So, if this was my penalty,
then what did you write
on everybody else's notes?
[RIKA]
I can't tell you yet!
[SATOKO]
Hmm...
That's not very nice.
[RIKA]
You were right, Satoko.
I didn't know how happy I was
until you helped me realize it.
I get it now, thanks to you,
and I want to share my
happiness when we're together.
And so.
I asked all our friends
to help me with that!
Happy birthday, Satoko!
Surprise!
Yeah, happy birthday!
Satoko. Happy birthday!
[MION]
Mm! And many more!
Wow, you guys.
Rika really went out of her way
to pull together
a party for you!
Here, take a look at this.
[SATOKO] I appreciate
all of your efforts.
I just...
I know your birthday can bring
back a lot of painful memories
that make it hard
for you to celebrate.
Yeah, it does.
[RIKA] But hopefully, it'll be
better if we all at least try.
Honestly, that's the
most pompous thing
I've ever heard you say.
All my friends are here
to celebrate my birthday.
Did you really think you
wouldn't make me happy?
Great. Now to open these!
Oh, my.
What might you be?
Uh... A vegetable encyclopedia?
Maybe now that you have this,
you'll finally be able
to recognize the difference
between broccoli
and cauliflower.
[SATOKO growls]
Well, in spite of your smugness.
I actually know everything,
including that.
[chuckles]
You should open my gift now!
I see, that's unexpected.
Awooo! Kyute!
I wanna take both
of you home with me!
What, are you trying
to keep her present, too?
So when do we get to see
what you brought her?
Who, me? Well I'll admit,
I couldn't manage to come up
with anything mind‐blowing,
but I hope it's something
that she'll like!
Just tell me if you
want any more, okay?
Oh, Mion.
All of you, really.
Thank you so much.
Truly, I couldn't be happier!
Mii.
Get ready, 'cause I'm gonna make
the greatest birthday
feast of your life!
And I'd like you
all to join us, too!
Ni‐paa!
Is that what the
groceries were all about?
You thought of everything,
huh, Rika!
But before we leave, I also have
another present to give you.
[SATOKO]
Goodness.
There's more?
It was all I could afford,
but I hope you'll like it.
[SATOKO] My! I'm shaking
with anticipation!
[RENA]
Satoko?
How could you have known
what was in this box?
[chortles]
I am shocked that you
would even attempt
such an obvious ploy
against the undisputed
trap master of our game club!
[gasps]
[RIKA] It's true that
I had been planning
to play a prank on you with
this gift, up until last night.
Or could it be that someone
else is rolling for me,
and I only imagined that
I was in control at all?
I decided to trade it for
something I knew
would make you happy.
[HANYUU] Its blade has
the ability to sever the loops.
[RIKA]
I'll ask again.
How could you have known that?
[gasps]
[RIKA] Next time:
Satokowashi‐hen, Part One.